this week that worked on the ID
selectors spec that thinks that this was
work with Jeremy Stephens of even others
selectors are a long-standing thing that
we've wanted for many many years there's
a lot of conversations gathered over the
years as to what we want
we've tried a number of times to come up
with some languages and its indexes that
would kind of satisfy a lot of the
requirements and have so far been
unsuccessful
so this spec begins by kind of
articulating what what selectors are and
links to a bunch of prior work that
expands a lot on the goals of selectors
installing this crisis a few kind of
design notes for what we would want out
of time selectors and then it kind of
narrows on the problem by saying what
this is not about which usually in the
ends up by setting the abilities like
there's questions a lot of them get
riddle by other things
so really selectors are about how do we
extend so simply identify a subset
connected to the root that's it there's
like nothing else involved in making a
selector that's still a pretty hard
problem there's a lot of requirements I
sorts these and run them through a few
people right and by a lot of people and
we weren't able to find more yet there
many other brothers collectors sorry
other requirements for inspectors but
these are roughly roughly what they are
and what these boil down to is that you
can't actually come up with one because
we have some departments around a great
ability of this system in the long term
and we want to be able to learn from
from three different systems we end up
with the fact that you can't have one
single syntax that encapsulates all of
those requirements so contrary to what
XPath and CSS selectors did of boiling
everything down to a single syntax
we instead ticketed for approach which
is more consistent with how we approach
other things which is to say we have a
interface for what a selector is and is
supposed to satisfy and then we have the
ability to have different types and we
can have some very basic selectors that
we should buy the bulbs but for creative
process by which other groups can other
participants and so on can create new
selector types and contribute them to
the to the system and then over time if
some of those become really popular then
they can become part of of standard
libraries and so on and so what this
means is that you know we use typing we
have a system of selector types that
allows creative you select languages and
synthesis and the can compose them which
is an important part of that we create
an easy path for plugin selector text
into a Quixote libraries and other
consumers and then we need a light
process for testing and submitting new
selector times so there's a this
outlines a whole bunch of work ahead for
the selector effort which means hey we
need a well-defined binary human human
readable cell description for types
that's easy it's just a multi codec we
have a we need to define a very narrow
selector interface for most uses of
selectors so that way all systems that
need to use the lectures things like
grass bank or cluster for pinning or ID
because we're pinning providers for
expressive private records or you know
things like Paco and when they need to
synchronize a chain or some other things
like that we just use that interface so
that's a various obtain a description of
what is lekker isn't us and then we need
a senate way to add peace electric-type
implementation to ideally faculty
library so in an ideal library we export
the ethically so like our interface and
we need a way to add type
implementations to that libraries so
that just means like a simple way of
defining the modules as much that you
can insert new types over time and so
the users of the library can do that as
well to experiment with things then we
need to make sure that we use for
basically as long as possible the
abstract selector type and we don't
and bad some like specific thing all
over the place we came up with a number
of symbols electrodes that cover most of
the common cases see II's paths globs
I'll show you a few more in a moment we
have a selector type that allows
composing selectors so this means some
way so I feel that handles multiple
slackers the working title of most
selector that might change because to
avoid confusion with the motor formats
well and then two-point aims are that
one we want to aim for language
independent limitations of selectors so
think of writing parsers and execution
and so on in a language agnostic way so
I work in a portable way maybe it's the
best better way to describe it and that
would be no long term things like
blossom but in the meantime really be
fine allowing language specific
implementation of stuff selectors which
are is what's gonna happen for those
simple ones or CDs and pads and maybe
blobs
like we're just gonna right at them
chance at going that's much easier than
trying to like shoehorn some wants other
thing into either of these systems and
not a cover so the claim is that CDN
path might cover you know some huge
percentage of the times when we want
selectors and that maybe belongs would
cover like probably up to an 80 or 90%
of the use cases will be described so
the other more complex selector stuff is
really for future applications one
really important thing here importance
is to create a well-designed
set of test vectors representing a
variety of the use cases for active
talker so that means coming up with a
whole bunch of graphs that describe and
then select our expressions over those
graphs with like the test cases straight
is saying this selector apply to this
graph should yield this and if we have a
bunch of those that are gonna cover a
bunch of those like really tricky edge
pieces once we have those then we can
write different electronic limitations
or different kinds of selectors indexes
apply to those test vectors and
yeah no that'll be fine and some of the
types to describe then also like her she
likes the empty side there's the CID
which likes the specific CID so that
it's a very simple selector it just
picks one a single node and the pop up
to it that's a path which Alexa might
build a fast within that so that means
like CID and some pop down a blob which
is the unique style of so that's you
know using star or you know every name
for or fulfilling feeling any kind of
character in there star spotter for
representing all descendants like
including sessions and some of those
parts of the syntax so Bluffs might
include actually I'll just go through
them cuz I wrote it up question marks
matching exam character and so on and
you'll notice here that that in this
there's kind of like a hint at what the
binary format might look like and what
this string format might look like
important that their selectors need both
a binary and a string representation
because it'll be a lot of cases where
selectors get dumped out to the user and
the user needs to be like systems
building on selectors need to just count
on the fact that these next half of
human reader works with each other
that's not gonna like yeah
there's so yeah one selector that just
it's kind of like a nice expression that
applies unions in effect and difference
over selectors and then one part of the
spectate respect is really showing what
these interfaces might be and go so this
is meant us to kind of like a general
thing but it became like more just real
quickly becomes like close to any
permutation yeah your prototype is your
implementation and this kind of goes
through what a bag is and kind of boils
down to a simpler interface there's kind
of a proposed traversal special powder
go through things this is kind of
something that really so bunch of other
things we're going to night believing
you'll to crawl through that similar to
how you do OS don't walk or or area over
things and then once we have those
things to find that a selector is pretty
simple it just checks whether it's
specific path is part of that selector
inside of the bag and that's really like
it so far it has these other got kind of
convenience things like we can return
the route of the selector can return the
type can return it its bite or anything
it's v representation straight word
petition and there's this notion of
whether or not selective absolute so so
the important thing here is turns out
selectors have similar to paths in UNIX
file systems they could be absolute
meaning they're like routed of cid or
they could be relative which means you
apply them on top of any word so that
means you might have a selector that you
apply you have a dag and so you're
flying down selector onto that maggot
you let the route it doesn't like or be
that route of the back and so then it
just becomes relative and that's similar
to you know technique CD or cat with
like a yeah kind of a better example cat
with like a blog and she'll cry so if
you do cat with a glove and she'll
relatively like that takes our working
directory and applies that relative glob
onto unto your working directory if you
apply it with like it's less at the
beginning then
absolutely this all that means but but
making that distinction here and so
being really useful on what you like
business yeah and that's it's so far for
for this thing I think the future work
here includes defining a bit more what
these pieces of of work might look like
so actually going through and so instead
of like doing it just yet scoping out
what some of these things will will
imply and kind of describing
requirements for things like that that
we libraries you have your lead library
if we're good and go needs to do the
next one is e so that's gonna come out
with this great
so that's any question so far for yeah
great question that is a hard question
that depends on whether or not we
exhibit two questions my question is
whether or not we have the magical that
system if we have the magical taxes and
then everything is easy let's assume
that we don't have a magical fascism
yeah if we do then it really becomes a
question around do can you what do you
need to do in a data structure like unix
of us to give an i feel the later end up
information to understand more complex
objects so for example a file it kind of
is like one object right even though it
has a bunch of nodes inside of it or I
started directories from one object so
you would want to be able to traverse
things like this the path to a directory
that happens to be started and then
write just the name of a directory and
then move forward and then that might
actually represent a whole bunch of like
traversals inside of a larger graph so
ideally we would want to like ours over
over those higher level level clusters
as well they can likely be expressed the
exact same way the syntax is don't
change
which is don't change what changes how
they execute and how they apply into the
bags and so what we really need to
figure out to be able to make that
possible is how this composite object
data structure thing how that behaves as
an actively node if that whole composite
object can satisfy some IP LV node
interface then then it'll then then that
can work out of the box meaning I don't
think as a selectors problem that's a
how do you represent those complex data
structures I like building US units best
with their practice retreated but
they're probably seen that with reading
history well I think I probably just
changing the code right now going in
jazz
they could have go UNIX effects on
adjacent Express you mean you change
representing this director started
directories and I've started files as a
single ability object that couldn't
happen in an IPL be library yeah we'd
have to understand like know that the
layer that does this heck would have to
understand this transition that's right
and so it wouldn't have a would explore
that I started at the full credit
directory or the whole charter file as a
single object for the purposes of this
electro style
yeah which but something would have to
tell that this is a sure what I'm saying
so I should probably avoid by attending
here I'm gonna abort and say that I that
is definitely concerned and I think you
can need to be addressed
evelators of data structure definition
selector shouldn't we shouldn't have
multiple types of like core we shouldn't
have multiple selector levels like raw I
peel these selectors and then
you know you know XFS selectors and like
a whole different family selector
daddy's going to get massively confusing
that'll be like having different types
of different like packs traversal
systems depending on which file system
you have HP but so we will have to sit
down talk with this because I think
we're biker charts living too much and
saying well this is possible metric like
let's not leave it to magic with make a
very early from Creek yeah
and let's not assume that I Julie's
vectors have to solve all problems so we
we need to come up with concrete samples
of things I don't we don't believe will
work and then figure out great solutions
that work changes within our teams like
how is this resource is is required in
order to enable graph saying such graphs
think on our okay hours we currently do
this is not on anyone's okay cars great
great I think it's like so so far and
also the IP of the components have been
implemented by going to a steam
separately it was the hope that in the
long term we would kind of like you
don't have an IT team that would just
handle this for both both cases or both
going to yes we do not have that yet so
if it is a goal to make dressing and
that's what the requisite we need to
make selectors then that suggestive
defenses there and so that might mean
actually grab sonic is not doable
until this lands and so there gets
pushed out or we find somebody to handle
this sir which I don't know who might
the like kumite have the time and a
knowledge to dive into this and blend it
such that yes is there a second getting
balls recording a new sentence are there
more questions about how its selectors
first so you before you Claus
I think it might just be best to include
the grasping this question here because
a lot shorter and it's really dependent
on all this okay so having it separately
if people will be like what and it was
just before some to rewatch with all
this
thank you so this whole IP li selector
stuff was motivated by trying to pin
down what I think I'm practicing and so
the lake original goal progressing is to
make a protocol to synchronize grass
across peers and specifically like
selectors so so the the pulley inception
of graphs and close to getting fit swap
to be like upgraded with selector
capable stuff and downgraded with like
all of the market dynamics meaning they
stopped originally had two goals one was
moving around just simple blocks of
content and the other was to measure
there's like ratio stuff the original
goal was to of when we created graphs
the idea perhaps I think was to separate
those two out into two protocols one
which was just going to handle
synchronizing and perhaps with selectors
and another protocol that would handle
all the other
like measuring dynamics so specifically
the graphs in protocol was like the goal
was to make a thing that is like this
one but instead of just moving around
one list of hashes would instead move
around one list of selectors so this
document begins with like a whole bunch
of concepts and a glossary because
aligning on what all of these things
mean is important and what these like
very precise words and how they're used
in related graphs like it's kind of a
grasping specific so this right now is a
much earlier piece but the whole like
protocol part has been figured out and
so this is taking much of what baseball
already does and just cleaning up a
certain problem around requests and
responses that was there previously and
adding the selector piece and so this is
work that I did with Jeremy we preserve
the idea so so I'm gonna assume that
people are familiar with this well I'm
sorry I don't wanna like this document
is not large enough to explain the whole
thing detail so we're now just going to
find in terms of this well the goal is
for this back to yes actually describe
all of this fully so that you don't need
to understand
they spoke beforehand it's just not
there yeah so you might then we this is
this vertical as best described through
like the protobuf message which is very
similar for the desktop one the
basically picked up one had this notion
of a want list and then a set of data
blocks this adds the notion of a
response and so you have a list of
requests a list of responses and then a
list of blocks and so all perhaps like
messages this version of grants Tony
Oliver some messages would be a list of
requests a list of responses initial
data the requests have instead of a hash
they have
they include some space for extra data
so this is because there are protocols
that want to cook into this system that
might want to introduce additional
information and so this is like a a
reserving a tag for those those groups
they have a priority similar to how
Excel works and they have canceled
somewhat habits of works they also have
added just up to one ID
the reason for this ID note is that you
need to be able to recognize the
response and associated with with that
request the reason for the addition of
the response is that there are a lot of
cases in these disturb you this D zone
once you have like a swarm of
participants trying to replicate bags
where something goes wrong or the
content is not there or all kinds of
things happen where you want to be able
to send a message back to the original
requester telling them that either
you're working on this you don't have it
you don't plan to give it to them or to
like go away because they're dossing you
and like to stop and so that this is why
this response was added and so this is
moving moving what used to be kind of
been a very bit torrent inspired thing
more towards HTTP API is on our pcs so
it's a slight move it's not very
significant good it's still you know
single messages you don't need to track
the notion of kind of requests and keep
them open in the same way as HTTP does
it's still you know you send one message
and you receive a message but you have
ways of communicating about those those
requests and then there's like some some
of the kinds of pieces responses that
you might send send so this I went
through this with the people making sure
that it kind of covers what most people
wanted things around just information
like being able to send additional peers
for example this is about a common
device where you know that somebody you
know other participants have the content
so it's a requester passport selects the
responder receives electric text and
they know that some other party has the
content and they
you facilitate that distribution without
having to resort to some other content
rhyming system like with UHD this
provides a simple piece for that to
happen right and band in addition to
each other or as you can also even be
working on it and give them here's a
question
so that would be articulated in prose as
this document evolves that's what this
partial and terminal mean so partial
means that I'm sending a response to
that request with that information code
but it's not a terminal so it might send
you as many of these as I want until I
send you one of these terminal ones once
I send you these criminal ones then I
garbage collect all notion of the
request and so should you
so this probably like for completeness
here this spec should have a little
state machine of how these these work
which bits off already implies it's just
not documented this one already has a
little bit of a state machine around one
list and cancels it's just not described
anywhere
and so this spec should have that that's
a became so it's very clear it's like
you know you sent a request the the
requester sends the request the
responder receives a request and can
send a set of responses until they send
a terminal response and that's it we
also gathered a set of example use cases
of grassing some of things like syncing
watching we would like you know give me
give me this hash and the parent or you
know as many someone back or give you
the knows that exists in some hash but
not attached to so this is like the
selector difference right so you say I
want everything related by this hash and
but not everything at this other hash
that that really just means from this
hash to this other cache things like
downloading factors appendices loading
something from deep within a giant
dataset so this kind of like
stuff and so all of these in a sense are
expressing requirements or selectors
this is why selector for so relevant to
graph sync because what what a request
for graphics sync so far kept anyone
being able to express these kinds of
requests down at the lowest layer of
this well I supposed to doing is like
you know kind of back and forth so this
relief to the pinning stuff we were
talking about the cluster so what
cluster wants to be ability to pin up to
a certain depth in a graph or from a
certain that photograph it seems like
selectors are not way to describe those
sorts of relationships selectors
originally were intended to be able to
be used by kidding but pinning hasn't
you know described itself as dependent
on his language meaning how do we had a
magic looks like a solution that already
worked then it would make perfect sense
to just use it for pinning we would you
run it in you should though where when
thinking about like how we diffuse
lurkers and pinning if there's no way to
compare selectors and say this selector
contains this best lector then we can't
take advantage like remembering
information about what spindle and stomp
end and now why don't you see we could
run every single project when we either
remove or add sucker with whatever is
most like your sealer what the changes
are or we would you see we have to do
the same thing this is so related to
kind of like how the relative pending
works right so right now I don't think
that's optimized right now where you
have to two pins two recursive pins that
are actually pink one contains the other
we don't actually affect that well
currently whenever we run GC we walk
through every single pin in general
which is not going to work with the
large dataset section well forever
something the data store thinking about
like telling we have them Eliza lost
information so we only have like do this
once when we add
move them yeah so serious traveling
ideally you should be able to take a
whole bunch of selectors and compress
them down to a to a single selector that
they duplicate a lot of that information
and then yeah sit when I go to my Center
fish form Exeter fisheye effect to make
means their effect we wanna be able to
do is run a GC without looking at all
the data on the look at the daily
amateur move but the selectors like it
makes it difficult unless you can
actually compare them because I got
otherwise it this is gonna mope this one
would say okay remove the select X and
unpinning selector now which of I of the
softer supplies if I can order them
instead of this bucket commute to the
selector it's really easy then X base we
find at once doctor that it's like
contains all the others and then I pick
that one
otherwise I heckle up is to run every
single auger to okay now which is the
new one that applies if you guys and I
think this is a well understood problem
and things like CSS that have like
massively cascading over huge trees so I
think there's one thing Elam note is in
the requirements there is a requirement
selectors that they say it can select
with seated sitter enemas and this might
seem completely weird and arbitrary the
reason that's there is that issue be
possible for one party to send
effectively the same selector to several
parties but give them some mod modules
that they have to so easy I want to go
to requests give me this graph mod 7
because I'm asking is having people so
just giving every 7th note
so I asked that to seven different
parties and then they should in order
give me all different blocks as opposed
to all giving me the same content right
so right now there's a problem that's
awful you're new here it's a way of it
expressing sharding of the requests
directly in the selector this might not
solve it solve all the cases but it's
like a thing that can be used so there
might be other things like that with
selector degree so maybe not random in
this example but some other kind of
example of like saying give me this part
this like left side of the tree and you
guys want a party to give you the right
side of the tree this it gets easier
with the bit fields because with
midfields you could actually directly
ask like I want to you know this chunk
of notes from you this other chunk of
notes from the other person there's a
chunk of notes from the other party and
you can keep changing these this is what
the Torah dust but during doesn't very
quickly and effectively because
everything is around bit fields and you
can modulate which it feels you sent to
what party and and you can govern you
can tell others what what to send you to
avoid sending a lot of duplicates up
yeah so yeah you're right this isn't
probably right described what what I
mean is basically being able to make a
random choice on the content based on
the content so it's basically saying
like take ticket suppose there's a one
part of this record let's place the sub
back now I want to you to roll a die and
if that guy is like you know a one then
give me that back by the dogs
determined by you can make it country
different by the content wait it's not
if you make it only determined on that
node so basically is like the diet the
module is check is on the hash will be
particular node then that will be
unbalanced so some parties might send
you a lot more stuff and others this
cost be used machine learning stuff for
like I can send a request to you
it says missus samples your directory or
whatever our samples your file I see it
was some pseudo-random so I get her
monistic value from each you're talking
to when it's all you're saying return to
me so from these massive data sets of a
millions of points returned to be a
hundred points yeah which is the 100
random randomly yeah I was just saying
if you want to use this or if you want
to use super randomness to like charge
requests you'll end up with probably end
up with like duplicate responses and
responses yes
none of you saw the same random is to
everybody and then they used a different
outside yeah yeah let's make sure that
whatever ends up in the spec covers
though you could do this already where
the keys in the number they use
everything to sort everything and then
you ask for slices of that
so yeah this does not cover the
questions around if I have a whole swarm
of participants who don't ask for what
and how do i you know decrease the
duplication or optimize you know the
likelihood of me getting content quickly
from the parties that I have and so on
that's kind of left at a different layer
so the goal of grasping was to really
really separate these concerns with one
concern is just the synchronizing of
grass with collectors the other part is
who do you ask what is likely to be
successful
[Applause]